Add ML Dashboards page (#2987)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _ml-commons-plugin/ml-dashboard.md

---
layout: default
title: Managing ML models in OpenSearch Dashboards
nav_order: 120
---

Machine Learning in OpenSearch dashboards is an experimental feature released in OpenSearch 2.6. It can't be used in a production environment. For updates on the feature’s progress or to leave feedback on improving the feature, see the [OpenSearch Forum discussion](https://forum.opensearch.org/t/feedback-ml-commons-ml-model-health-dashboard-for-admins-experimental-release/12494).
{: .warning }

Administrators of machine-learning (ML) clusters can use OpenSearch dashboards to manage and check the status of ML models running inside their cluster. This can aid in assisting ML developers with provisioning nodes to make sure their models run efficiently.

As of OpenSearch 2.6, you can only upload models using the API. For more information about how to upload a model to your cluster, see [Upload model to OpenSearch]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/ml-commons-plugin/model-serving-framework#upload-model-to-opensearch)

> ## Accessing Machine Learning in Dashboards

Reviewer: User should add `ml_commons_dashboards.enabled: true` to `config/opensearch_dashboards.yml` to enable ML admin console, otherwise user can't see it.

---
layout: default
title: Managing ML models in OpenSearch Dashboards
nav_order: 120
---

> Machine Learning in OpenSearch dashboards is an experimental feature released in OpenSearch 2.6. It can't be used in a production environment. For updates on the feature’s progress or to leave feedback on improving the feature, see the [OpenSearch Forum discussion](https://forum.opensearch.org/t/feedback-ml-commons-ml-model-health-dashboard-for-admins-experimental-release/12494).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Released in OpenSearch 2.6, the machine learning (ML) functionality in OpenSearch Dashboards is experimental and can't be used in a production environment. For updates or to leave feedback, see the [OpenSearch Forum discussion](https://forum.opensearch.org/t/feedback-ml-commons-ml-model-health-dashboard-for-admins-experimental-release/12494).
```

{: .warning }

> Administrators of machine-learning (ML) clusters can use OpenSearch dashboards to manage and check the status of ML models running inside their cluster. This can aid in assisting ML developers with provisioning nodes to make sure their models run efficiently.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Administrators of machine learning (ML) clusters can use OpenSearch Dashboards to manage and check the status of ML models running inside a cluster. This can help ML developers provision nodes to ensure their models run efficiently.
```

> Administrators of machine-learning (ML) clusters can use OpenSearch Dashboards to manage and check the status of ML models running inside their cluster. This can aid in assisting ML developers with provisioning nodes to make sure their models run efficiently.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Administrators of ML clusters can use OpenSearch Dashboards to manage and check the status of ML models running inside a cluster. This can help ML developers provision nodes to ensure their models run efficiently.
```

> As of OpenSearch 2.6, you can only upload models using the API. For more information about how to upload a model to your cluster, see [Upload model to OpenSearch]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/ml-commons-plugin/model-serving-framework#upload-model-to-opensearch)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As of OpenSearch 2.6, you can only upload models using the API. For more information about how to upload a model to your cluster, see [Upload model to OpenSearch]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/ml-commons-plugin/model-serving-framework#upload-model-to-opensearch).
```

> ## Enabling Machine Learning in Dashboards

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Enabling ML in OpenSearch Dashboards
```

> In OpenSearch 2.6, Machine Learning is disabled by default. To enable it, you need to edit the configuration in `opensearch_dashboards.yml` and then restart you cluster.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In OpenSearch 2.6, Machine Learning is disabled by default. To enable it, you need to edit the configuration in `opensearch_dashboards.yml` and then restart your cluster.
```

> In OpenSearch 2.6, Machine Learning is disabled by default. To enable it, you need to edit the configuration in `opensearch_dashboards.yml` and then restart your cluster.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In OpenSearch 2.6, ML functionality is disabled by default. To enable it, you need to edit the configuration in `opensearch_dashboards.yml` and then restart your cluster.
```

To enable the feature:

1. In your OpenSearch cluster, navigate to your Dashboards home directory; for example, in Docker, `/usr/share/opensearch-dashboards`.

> 2. Open your local copy of the Dashboards configuration file, `opensearch_dashboards.yml`. If you don't have a copy, get one from GitHub: [`opensearch_dashboards.yml`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/OpenSearch-Dashboards/blob/main/config/opensearch_dashboards.yml).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Open your local copy of the Dashboards configuration file `opensearch_dashboards.yml`. If you don't have a copy, get one from GitHub: [`opensearch_dashboards.yml`](https://github.com/opensearch-project/OpenSearch-Dashboards/blob/main/config/opensearch_dashboards.yml).
```

> 3. Add the setting `ml_commons_dashboards.enabled:` and set it to  `ml_commons_dashboards.enabled: true` and save the configuration.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
3. Add the setting `ml_commons_dashboards.enabled:`, then set it to  `ml_commons_dashboards.enabled: true` and save the configuration.
```

> 3. Add the setting `ml_commons_dashboards.enabled:`  to `opensearch_dashboards.yml`. Then. set it to  `ml_commons_dashboards.enabled: true` and save the configuration file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Add the setting `ml_commons_dashboards.enabled:`  to `opensearch_dashboards.yml`. Then set it to  `ml_commons_dashboards.enabled: true` and save the configuration file.
```

4. Restart the Dashboards container.

> 5. Verify the feature configuration settings were created and configured properly by connecting launching OpenSearch Dashboards. The Machine Learning section should appear under **OpenSearch plugins**.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
5. Verify that the feature configuration settings were created and configured properly by connecting launching OpenSearch Dashboards. The Machine Learning section should appear under **OpenSearch plugins**.
```

> ## Accessing Machine Learning in Dashboards

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Accessing ML functionality in Dashboards
```

> To access Machine Learning in OpenSearch Dashboards,select **OpenSearch plugins** > **Machine Learning**. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To access ML functionality in Dashboards, choose **OpenSearch plugins** > **Machine Learning**, as shown in the following image. 
```

Reviewer 2: Global: Introduce images in the text that precedes them.

<img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/ml/ml-dashboard/ml-dashboard.png" alt="Machine Learning section in OpenSearch dashboards">

> Inside the Machine Learning section, you now have access to the **Deployed models** dashboard.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the Machine Learning section, you now have access to the **Deployed models** dashboard.
```

## Deployed models dashboard

> The model health dashboards give admins the ability to check the status of any models stored inside your OpenSearch cluster. 

Reviewer 4: "The model health dashboard gives ..." ?

> The model health dashboards gives admins the ability to check the status of any models stored inside your OpenSearch cluster. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The model health dashboard, shown in the following image, gives admins the ability to check the status of any models stored inside an OpenSearch cluster. 
```

Reviewer 2: The title and first sentence refer to this dashboard using different names. Should we use the same name in both instances?

Author: Switching to the "deployed models dashboard"

<img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/ml/ml-dashboard/deployed-models.png" alt="The deployed models view.">

The dashboard includes the following information about the model:

- **Name**: The name of the model given upon upload.

> - **Status**: The number of nodes for which the model is responsive. 

Reviewer 2: The number of nodes to which the model responds?

>    - When all nodes are responsive, status is **Green**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   - When all nodes are responsive, the status is **Green**.
```

>    - When some nodes are responsive, status is **Yellow**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   - When some nodes are responsive, the status is **Yellow**.
```

>    - When all nodes are unresponsive, status is **Red**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   - When all nodes are unresponsive, the status is **Red**.
```

- **Model ID**: The model ID.
- **Action**: What actions you can take with the model.

> As of OpenSearch 2.6, the only action available is **View Status Details**. 

Reviewer 3: Should this be formatted as a note?

Author: I think it's fine since we have the experimental note at the top

> As of OpenSearch 2.6, the only action available is **View Status Details**. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As of OpenSearch 2.6, the only action available is **View Status Details**, shown in the following image.
```

<img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/ml/ml-dashboard/view-status-details.png" alt="You can view status details under actions.">

When selected, the Status Details panel appears.

> You can see the following details inside the panel:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The panel provides the following details:
```

- **Model ID**

> - **Model status by node**: The number of nodes for which the model is responsive.

Reviewer 2: The number of nodes to which the model responds?

Author: Confirmed

> A list of nodes gives you a view of each node the model is running on, including each node’s **Node ID** and responsiveness. This is useful if you want to use the node's **Node ID** to track why the node is unresponsive in your cluster.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A list of nodes gives you a view of each node the model is running on, including each node’s **Node ID** and status, as shown in the following image. This is useful if you want to use the node's **Node ID** to determine why a node is unresponsive.
```

<img src="{{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/images/ml/ml-dashboard/model-node-details.png" alt="The status of each node running the model.">

## Next steps

> For more information about how manage models in OpenSearch, see the [Model-serving framework]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/ml-commons-plugin/model-serving-framework/).

Reviewer 4: "... about how to manage models ..."

> For more information about how to manage ML models in OpenSearch, see the [Model-serving framework]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/ml-commons-plugin/model-serving-framework/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For more information about how to manage ML models in OpenSearch, see [Model-serving framework]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/ml-commons-plugin/model-serving-framework/).
```
